Kromhout: Beleef de Historie

Location: Kromhouthal - Orange Ocean

Event type: Culture, Demonstration, Education, Exposition, Bar/restaurant, Music, Nautic, Tall Ships, Sailing Heritage, Safety/First Aid

Kromhout: Beleef de Historie
The Kromhouthal and De Overkant area have a rich history with its origins in the early 20th century. In 1908, the site was first built on by the Goedkoop family, this is the part of the site on which Restaurant STORK and Dansmakers are currently located.  The Goedkoop family were the owners of the Kromhout wharf where the producing of the kromhout engines once originated. After developing a new type of engine, the (international) demand increased and a factory was needed to realise the production of the engines.  After some extensions to the terrain, the Kromhouthal was built at the IJ shore in 1925, after which additions to the hall were built in 1930. At that time all this was still owned by engine producer Kromhout.

Several years later, in 1966, the entire site was taken over by engine producer STORK. Up to that time STORK had been located in the Ketelstraat, the street adjoining the site. STORK proved successful in producing a wide range of products for the food industry. The company’s growth and the simultaneous decrease of shipping transport allowed STORK to purchase the adjoining lots previously owned by Kromhout and DRAKA.  The terrain now made up the size The Overkant currently still has.

In the late 80s there was little left of the once thriving industrial IJ shore. The atmosphere and the companies of the area changed dramatically after the canal basins were largely filled. The site’s shipping history faded.  At the same time STORK moved several of its divisions to other locations in The Netherland.

In 2009, rental housing organization Eigen Haard bought the site to give the area a new impulse. Shortly afterwards the terrain was renamed De Overkant and became Amsterdam’s creative hotspot. Not much later event experts Nathan Wiersma and Yuri Jansen were asked to take on the Kromhout Hall and exploit it as an event location. The Kromhouthal hosted its first events in mid 2011.